---
title: 'The Plant Project'
date: 2021-01-05
permalink: /posts/2021/01/blog-1/
toc: true
tags:
  - projects

---

An attempt to grow herbs year-round using hydroponics.

The Idea
======
During each weekly grocery trip, I find myself standing in front of the wide selection of fresh herbs in the produce section of my local grocery store. I love to cook with fresh herbs - I think the flavors in my cooking are enhanced by using fresh, rather than dried. However, when a single dish uses an entire bunch of herbs, this preference gets pretty pricey.

Nearly weekly, I have found myself wishing that I had plants at home that would replenish the supply of herbs that I keep on hand. The problem - growing consistent food is difficult for a number of reasons, but my main concerns are consistent nutrients for the herb plants, as well as consistent light.

Hydroponics is a method of growing plants without soil, meaning that the roots of the plants are directly exposed to the water. Some people supplement the system with gravel or some kind of other physical support. Because there is no soil in the system, nutrient retention is more challenging, but the nutrients are transported unimpeded to the plant roots in a form that is immediately usable. Nutrients just to be closely monitored to ensure that the plants can grow in optimal conditions. This method also reduces water waste, because the excess can be recirculated back through the system.

There are different types of hydroponic systems, but I am most interested in a continuous flow model called Nutrient Film Technique (NFT) and Flood and Drain Sub-Irrigation.

The Process
------
(Coming soon)
